Hagar is welcome back to the course.
OK.
We've covered quite a bit on the editing side and post-production side of things but you haven't noticed
each lecture is kind of masking the assumption that you yourself Mr. or Mrs. Numero Uno who will be
doing pretty much everything.
Now I know for a lot of you out there you might not have much of a budget or hey you're really just
new to this whole video marketing thing to begin with so maybe you're just dipping your toes in the
water and not yet ready to invest and throw down the big bucks.
Yeah.
And that's perfectly fine.
I personally suggest that in a perfect world.
Yes.
You yourself take the time to try to do as much as you can if you can learn a little bit about cameras
a little bit about effective scripting and a little bit of editing.
Well then you're going to set yourself up to be in a much better position later on when you do go finally
find someone to do it for you as someone who understands the basics.
You will find it way easier to communicate what you need and understand what the hell these people say
back to you.
I want to ask you what type of editing style you want it.
Well you'd never opened up premiere of Final Cut Pro.
What exactly would you tell them and would it all probably sound like jibberish kind of like when someone
asked me to describe what I want in a logo.
I have never designed anything in my life.
And so my response usually amounts to basically caveman groans and made up words like cleanish or Wehby
no good.
Now here's someone who has the budget henceforth referred to as the bulge or has transition to a point
where you want someone else to do your post-production Well then you have a decent set of options and
this lecture and I think the next lecture we're going to cover how to break down video editing for a
hiring standpoint.
And then the next one we're going to tackle where to find these people and how to pick the right person.
When I first started making online courses I painstakingly edited literally everything.
Now I edit maybe two or three lectures a course and that's it.
Try and see if you can actually Guess which one in each course is edited by me.
I'll give you a clue.
It's usually the one with explosions.
OK so let's talk about contracting and outsourcing.
Generally speaking when I say video editors we're actually talking about three different functions performed
by one person.
Number one it's called Timeline editing.
Number two we have graphics editing and number three we have animations if you so decide to use them
timeline.
Editing is essentially what we did in the last lectures.
This consists of taking raw footage or Rough Cuts removing bad takes bad angles and the like and putting
everything in the right sequence with the right transitions.
Now this process might also include some touching up if say your lighting was off or even audio mixing
if you decided to say use more than one audio source.
Mixing is exactly what it sounds like by the way they take audio sources and decide which one is best
at what time.
Now graphics editing on the other hand would be the process of adding things like floating text screencast
images and even clips of videos.
Now they might even do what are called interstitials which are basically images or screens that interrupt
the main flow of the video for a short period of time.
When I edit I put these in actually a lot I might interrupt a video screen that says something important
or I might even freeze the screen and play the Jeopardy music if I for instance ask the viewer to think
about something or go look for something.
Right now
yes I totally invented that joke because I'm that clever.
Now the last thing I mentioned was animations.
Now graphics are the basic elements that get added that aren't footage from your camera an image up
throw a goofy screen up or throw up a goofy video or whatever.
That's easy.
Go find something that matches this topic and then use it animation on the other hand is almost always
a custom process by which they take illustrations or images or who knows what and they add emotion to
it.
This stuff usually looks great and it usually gives off the feeling that this is a big production with
fancy Mansi editors.
You are basically Pixar.
Most commonly you'll see this stuff in those little intro bits to video where you see an animated logo
but you might see it throughout the video.
Now the editing style of one of my favorite YouTube channels.
Crash Course.
I think we covered that already or it's coming up in the future.
Well they constantly use animation of custom illustrations.
Now think of that now those three things I just mentioned timeline editing graphics editing and animation
are what is going to determine who you need to hire and how much you need to pay them.
Someone who is only capable of doing timeline editing and you know there are surprisingly a large amount
of them will generally be on the cheaper end of the spectrum.
If they do timeline editing and graphics editing you're going to get more expensive.
And this is the general rule.
The more skills they have them and the more they can do for you well then the more they're going to
cost.
If they can do all three of those things timeline graphics and animations well then they're going to
be pretty pretty pricey.
Generally speaking it's also the case that you'll find editors out there that only do one of these three.
And in fact in the case of timeline editing an animation while this is actually pretty common in fact
it's actually kind of rare to find someone who can do animation and also focus on the other types of
editing.
Usually animators specialized in animation and often they use entirely different softwares like Adobe
After Effects which you cannot really timeline at in if that's the case.
Well you might have to look for multiple people but don't really forget this is actually pretty normal.
Sometimes you have a timeline editor who then passes the video off to a graphics person who then passes
it off to an animator.
Now the game with outsourcing video is this.
You want to get the person that has all the skills you need and nothing more.
Now the analogy I like to think of is like running a hotel.
Yes a hotel stay with me here now when you book hotel you'll notice the prices fluctuate all over the
place and sometimes it doesn't really even make that much sense.
Why is a Hyatt more expensive than a holiday and which is more expensive than a best western.
Well because the Hyatt has more middies and the price shows that they have a hot tub.
You pay for that.
They have a pool.
You'll pay for that restaurant.
And in fact even if you don't eat there you do pay for the access to that restaurant.
So if you don't plan to eat and swim at your hotel why are you booking a Hyatt booked the hotel that
only has the things they'll actually use.
The next time you think about hiring an editor just think I need a best western because it's got a bed
a door and a light bulb and you'll never be confused because that makes complete sense even out of context.
So decide up front what you need do you want.
Animation.
No.
Then don't hire someone who has the capability of doing animation.
Do you need complex graphics editing or just basic text on a screen if you need the basics and don't
hire the guy who can do the complex stuff if you know what you want.
That will make the process simpler and cheaper.
The second thing you need to decide up front is this how much time do you want to spend managing this
person.
Maybe you're the person who has lots of free time and loves to make documents on what you need and can
review every minute of video they possibly could pump out.
OK well that's good to know although I think you're probably crazy.
Maybe you're more like me and you don't have the time to do that so you want someone who can get more
from last.
With regard to instruction that specific type of person you can be more confident that they know what
you want so you don't really need to micro-manage them as much.
Now the rule here is very simple.
The more communication and management you are willing to give them the cheaper they will be.
There are video editors all over the world.
I can hire someone in San Francisco or someone in Mombasa Kenya the person in San Francisco is going
to be able to run on their own without much from me.
They're probably going to be more independent but the person in Kenya will not just figure it out on
their own.
Their standard of editing and their standard of what good qualifies as it's just different and you'll
have to make up the gap with more direction and more hand-holding.
You guys are in my outsourcing courses and you knew this tenant pretty well.
You want to get the best bang for your buck.
Then you're just going to have to spend more time on it personally.
So ask yourself how much time do I have to spend on this.
Maybe you're making an educational series you published two videos a week and oh you're also the CEO
of everything else.
Maybe you want someone who's a little hands off but maybe let's say you're making a one off promo and
your product isn't live yet so you have some time to make sure you get this one right now.
Here are some prices that you can use as a rough rough guide to what you'll end up paying for those
two spectrums of editors capability and then the requirement of Management.
Please do not quote me on this as there are a million and one exceptions and markets constantly change
someone who does timeline editing only and needs a lot of hand-holding will be the cheapest.
If you are okay working with someone out of your country you can get some of those $4 an hour.
You want to work with an American or European film student.
You can get them as cheap as 10 to $15 an hour.
Now this is someone who speaks your language and probably doesnt need as much hand-holding now and attend
to $15 range $10 to probably be someone who gets a lot of instruction and then the 15 percent will be
people that are more OK on their own.
That's usually the range if you want someone to do your timeline editing and your graphics editing out
of country.
You could pay as low as $8 an hour to $20 an hour in an expensive country with less hand-holding.
Well expect to pay more in the range of 15 to 30 dollars an hour.
Now if you want someone who could do all three timeline editing graphics animation and custom work.
I usually see the prices like this while out of the country with more management also known as it probably
don't speak the same language perfectly.
You might get them at man probably $20 an hour on the very low end but it could easily go all the way
up to $50 an hour in an expensive country with less management and all three of those skills while youd
expect to pay at an absolute minimum thirty five dollars an hour.
You could easily pay well over 70 an hour.
So there are two ways of planning your strategy.
One is to pick where you fall into regards decide what level editing you need.
Do you just need a timeline editor or do you need graphics and potentially do any custom animation.
The second thing is how much time and management you're willing to give lots of free time and patience
or limited free time.
And you know you want more of a free range Ed..
Now the other way of course of doing this is just to decide what your budget is and then just work backwards.
If you know you can only spend $30 an hour for instance well that means you could work with an editor
that does all three types of editing but is out of your country and is going to need more communication
and instruction.
Or you could work with a local more independent editor that might not have the same polished set of
skills.
Now that's two ways of doing it.
Take a moment and ask yourself where you fall and then let's move on to the next lecture.
We'll talk about where to find these magical editors.
See that.